# Astro 528, Lab 3

Before starting this lab, make sure you've successfully gotten setup to use git, Julia and Pluto.
Remember, that you need follow the provided link to create your own private copy of this lab's repository on GitHub.com.   See the
[help on the course website](https://psuastro528.github.io/Fall2025/tips/labs/) for instructions on cloning, commiting, pushing and reviewing your work.

## Exercise 1: Dense Matrix-Vector Multiply
#### Goals:  

- Compare the performance of using different memory access patterns
- Choose appropraite memory layout & data structures for a project

From a Pluto session, work through ex1.jl
When you're done with exercise 1, please add, commit and push the figures generated by your notebooks with
`git add ex1*.png; git commit -m "add figs"; git push`
This will allow the instructor and TA to see the same figures you saw when reading your responces.  
But please (try to) save this step for once you've finished, so you don't add many versions of your figures to your repository.

## Exercise 2: File I/O
### Goals:  

- Call Python from Julia
- Extract Data from PyObjects with minimal copying
- Compare the read performance of different file formats.
- Compare the file size of different file formats.
- Use results to help choose an appropriate file formats for your project

From your Pluto sesion, work through ex2.jl
If you are trying to run Pluto on a local system, then you may encounter difficulties with the PyCall package being build successfully.  There are similar complications on the GitHub server running the continuous integration tests.  (That's why there is a [ex2_static.html](https://psuastro528.github.io/lab3/ex2_static.html) showing output from running on Lynx where python has been setup to communicate with Julia.)  Don't worry about errors reported by the continuous integration tests for ex2.

When you're done with exercise 2, please add, commit and push the figures generated by your notebooks with
`git add ex2*.png; git commit -m "add figs"; git push`
This will allow the instructor and TA to see the same figures you saw when reading your responces.  
But please (try to) save this step for once you've finished, so you don't add many versions of your figures to your repository.

